basic workflow of Git. 

Step 1 : You modify a file from the working directory. 
Step 2 : You add these files to the staging area. 
Step 3 : You perform commit operation that moves the files from the staging area.  
After push operation, it stores the changes permanently to the Git repository.  

Blobs (Binary Large Object) 

--------------------------- 

Each version of a file is represented by blob 

A blob holds the file data but doesn't contain the metadata. 

it is a binary file , and in git databases, it is named as SHA1 hash of that file. 

in git, files are not addressed by names, everything is content addressed. 

 

Trees 

----------- 

Tree is an object, which represents a directory.  

It holds blobs as well as other sub-directories.  

A tree is a binary file that stores references to blobs and trees which are also named as SHA1 hash of the tree object. 

 

Commits 

------- 

 

Commit holds the current state of the repository 

A commit is also named by SHA1 hash 

Every commit object has a pointer to the parent commit object 

From a given commit, you can traverse back by looking at the parent pointer to view the history of the commit 

If a commit has multiple parent commits, then that particular commit has been created by merging two branches. 

 

Branches 

----------- 

 

Branches are used to create another line of development 

By default, Git has a master branch, which is same as trunk in Subversion 

Usually, a branch is created to work on a new feature 

Once the feature is completed, it is merged back with the master branch and we delete the branch 

Every branch is referenced by HEAD, which points to the latest commit in the branch 

Whenever you make a commit, HEAD is updated with the latest commit 

 

Clone 

----- 

Clone operation creates the instance of the repository.  

Clone operation not only checks out the working copy, but it also mirrors the complete repository.  

Users can perform many operations with this local repository.  

The only time networking gets involved is when the repository instances are being synchronized. 

 

Pull 

------- 

Pull operation copies the changes from a remote repository instance to a local one.  

The pull operation is used for synchronization between two repository instances.  

 

 

Push 

-------- 

Push operation copies changes from a local repository instance to a remote one. 

This is used to store the changes permanently into the Git repository.  

 

HEAD 

-------- 

HEAD is a pointer, which always points to the latest commit in the branch.  

Whenever you make a commit, HEAD is updated with the latest commit.  

The heads of the branches are stored in .git/refs/heads/ directory. 

 

 

Add a file into staging area : #git add <file_name> 

Commint a file : #git commit -m "Comment"  

To unstage a file : #git rm --cached <file_name> 

Configure name: #git config  --global  user.name <user_name> 

Configure email : #git config --global user.email  <email_id> 

 
